He always had an interest in engineering.
I did too.
But I wasn't certain that that's what I wanted to do.
I took all the math and stuff in high school that they offered and made good grades in it.
But I just decided that my heart was in agriculture.
That's where I'd grown up and my ag teacher had been such an influence on me and all of these things.
I just decided I was going to major in ag ed.
I wanted to be a county agent.
or a high school ag teacher.
Back up a little bit.
A fellow by the name of Clyde Wells was our assistant county agent when I was a youngster growing up.
I never will.
Clyde Wells was a nice fellow.
We really liked him as our assistant county agent.
He worked more with the 4-H clubs.
So, you know, that name goes back a long way with me and one that I looked up to, you know, for him to later...
the longtime region at A&M.
But I had pretty well nailed that down well before I came to A&M.
That's what I was going to study.
And that's what I started out in, and I never thought about changing.
It just went right through that.
Describe that first semester of classes in here.
Okay.
Your impressions of going to class the first times.
Well, I'd heard, you know, some stories about, you know, it's going to be hard and all of that.
I'd always prided myself in being able to do good schoolwork.
And I was always right at the top of the class in everything I was in when I was in high school and lower.
But I was accustomed to making good grades and being at the top of the class.
And, you know, I was a little scared and concerned when I came to A&M.
And I heard my dad told me, man, you know, you'll have to work hard and you'll have to take good notes and all that.
Well, I learned to take notes early on.
I tried to take down everything I possibly could and get it down and then go back to the room and at night I could go over that.
But I found it interesting and challenging
I think I was a distinguished student every semester I was here.
Were there some courses that first, some classes that first fall that were memorable?
Well, chemistry, chemistry was an interesting, you know, I heard a lot of stories about that.
Who taught it?
Do you remember?
I don't know.
We attended it in that big lecture hall over there and I'd like, seemed like 300 students in there and I just, and I'd had high school chemistry and a lot of it seemed to me not too much further than what I'd had in high school.
But most of the kids in there were just dumbfounded with it.
They'd not had that stuff before and they just couldn't comprehend all that.
But I found it hard and I had to work at it, but I made good grades in there.
Like I say, I think I was a distinguished student every semester I was at A&M.
Did you have any advisor early on?
I don't remember any advisor.
Like Dean Potts wasn't yet in that role?
No.
I didn't.
Now some of the students may have found someone, but I really didn't, I can't recall, you know, an advisor per se, until later on.
Over in Ag Ed, Mr. J.R.
Jackson passed away this last year, I believe.
He was with the Normandy Landing and was seriously injured and all that but he was one of the professors in ag education and you know I was closer to him than anyone else and I really owe a lot to him.
He's a fine man, fine example but he encouraged me and you know we'd meet and have talks and all and
You know, I'd say, you know, he was the one.
And there was Mr. Henry Ross.
I believe he was maybe head of the Ag Ed Department for a while.
I knew him some.
Another friend and advisor that I had here, although not as a professor, Mr. J.W.
Sorenson, Sally Henderson's father.
He was working in the Ag Engineering Experiment Station, I believe it was, down here in the Ag Engineering Building.
My brother ended up getting a job with him, doing, helping him with some of the statistical work that he's keeping logs and records and stuff.
My brother graduated and I got the job.
So the last two years, and I'd met Mr. Sorenson before that, but a prince of a gentleman.
he gave me the job.
So I'd go down there when I had time off from class and run the calculator.
He was running a lot of experiments with grain storage and thermocouples, temperatures, and have to do a lot of sorting out of that data, and I did that.
But Mr. Sorensen was one of my heroes here at A&M, and he's still here.
talk to him once in a while but not like I should, but he was very fond of my brother and he gave me the job and he's given me lots of good advice and example over the years.
That first fall, describe a typical class days routine for you.
What did you get up and what did you do?
Everything was pretty standard and pretty regular, fit in a
a pretty one day-by-day pattern.
I mean, it didn't vary that much.
You know, we got up and went to dining hall and an 8 o'clock class.
But y'all fell out for?
We marched to every meal.
And did you have a sophomore's room you were to take care of?
I don't remember.
Y'all didn't have that?
I don't remember taking care of a sophomore's room, but we had to have our room in an inspection order and all of that as a freshman.
And that was not hard to do.
I'd learned to make up a bed when I was home.
And you know, I didn't want a messy room.
And it was easy to keep that little room.
But we'd go to the dining hall and
I didn't have a whole lot of time and come back and go to 8 o'clock class.
It seemed like everybody pretty much had an 8 o'clock class, but classes were 8 to noontime, and then we all came back to the dorm, and we all fell out again, and we marched to Sebesa again for lunch, back to 1 o'clock, labs in the afternoon usually.
And then when I was playing during basketball season, we had basketball practice.
That was long and grueling.
I can talk more about that in a minute.
Well, we'll get to that later.
Now, what if you had any free unscheduled time during the day, 8 to 5?
What did you do with that time?
Went to the library.
Was there a place to kind of hide out and a part of the library where you could get away from any sophomores bothering you or anything?
Pretty much.
They didn't, I don't recall them bothering us in the library, but the Cushing Library.
But I spent a lot of my time in there, a lot of it in the reading room, just reading periodicals and newspapers and all that.
I love to read newspapers.
I still do.
I read them cover to cover.
I enjoy that.
You sound like you're telling my story now because to me, my goodness, a library with all these books.
Well, the library was probably my favorite place like that, plus the YMCA.
Now, what did you all do at the Y?
I went over there to play ping pong, and I watched the first television I ever watched there at the YMCA.
I think it was about 1951.
I remember being over there on a Sunday afternoon, and they had a television over there, and they had a snowy picture of a bit of a football game on there.
But that's the first TV that I saw.
But the Y was kind of a hangout place in a way.
Seemed like they used to have bowling in there too, but the MSC opened in the fall of 50, and they had a bowling alley there.
Now, we'd go over there and bowl some, some of my friends, but going to the library to read and all, sometimes to the YMCA.
And then to the MSC, when I came here, MSC had just opened that fall.
What did the MSC seem like to y'all?
Well, it was very impressive.
We heard a lot about it being a war memorial.
You know, everybody was quite aware this is a war memorial.
And, you know, we're going to have these rules in here about no hats and all that.
And you treat this place with respect and you don't get on the grass.
All that started that very fall.
I couldn't help but think about this last year as they celebrated the 50th anniversary.
They kind of honored the seniors.
They'd have been the class of 51, I guess.
They kind of had the lead role, but actually the freshman class that year, I believe, was the first ones to really get exposed to the MSC.
I remember we had a freshman conducted tour through the MSC that fall.
And I remember being at the front of that line and I've often thought maybe I was the first one to go in the door officially of the MSC.
I don't know if that's for certain, but I do remember I was up at the head of the line and it kind of stuck with me over the years.
I was one of the first ones.
Did you meet this young guy, Wayne Stark?
I heard about him and knew about him when I was here.
I didn't have any direct dealings with him or anything, but...
I do remember him and know that he had a lot to do with MSC and he was sort of running the program over there, but MSC was just palace to us.
What did y'all think about it being air conditioned?
Oh, wonderful, wonderful.
It was a palace.
I'm not, and it had a,
Along that hall, along that north hall, there was a dining room in there at one time.
It's been changed around a lot and added on to, but mailboxes were up on this corner, and we all had our mailboxes over there.
We were the first ones to have a mailbox in the MSC.
But I'd go over there twice a day to check the mail, and sometime would bowl over there, and eating in the dining hall over there was a rare, rare special privilege
I mean, I didn't have the money to do that.
I can't emphasize again how difficult times were economically for my family at home with three kids in school at one time.
And I literally didn't have enough money to buy a toothbrush.
I didn't spend any money for anything.
So I couldn't think about going into that dining hall and eating.
I was on the meal plan and I didn't miss a meal.
in terms of money, did you bring any money with you?
Do you remember how much?
It was probably $10 or less, I'm guessing.
And that reminds me of something that has kind of stuck with me over the years.
I really didn't have a good concept of what it cost to go to school or how my folks were going to pay for this.
I took it for granted that, well, you know,
Some way they'll pay the bills.
Well, they did pay the initial fee for me and I think we had, I was on installment plan of some kind and about October, November, you know, the next installment came due and they sent me a notice or something or my parents and they couldn't pay that installment.
And I thought, oh my, it just dawned on me that I'm gonna have to get out
If I'm gonna stay in school, I've got to find a source of income here.
I'm gonna have to get some jobs.
And that's when I started looking around to see what I could find.
Who did you turn to for advice on that?
Well, there was a loan office over there in Goodwin Hall.
The security police and some others were in there.
And I remember going in there and getting a loan several times, $50 loan.
you know, to pay back over a period of time.
But someone told me, you know, you can get a loan over there.
I read it, but some way I found out about it.
But I went over there and the rest of my college days I borrowed little bits of money like that at times.
But, you know, again, it really struck me when I found out that
hey, you know, my folks can't pay for this.
What am I thinking about?
And I had to, it changed my whole concept of things when I discovered that they couldn't.
So the way I financed the rest of my school was summer.
I'd work as hard and long as I could in the summer to save that money and then come back to school, do these little different jobs.
I worked, got a job in the press box.
My good friend, Jim Ashlock, who was
came from Baird a little old school not far from where I grew up well we were freshmen together and he was over there in athletic dorm too initially and he was a journalism major and he knew the folks in journalism and he told me he said man we need some more help over here in some way working in the press box doing statistics and I think it was about midway through that football season he said hey Tom
you know, I think I can get you on up here and said, by the way, you know, we get a good box lunch served to us here.
I look forward to that box lunch about as much as anything, but free.
But I did start helping do statistical work for the athletic department at the ball games.
Did some work at the varsity basketball.
We had freshman basketball team in those days, so I
I played on the freshman team, but when it came time for the varsity to play, you know, I'd keep rebounds and all that stuff.
But I started doing intramural basketball, refereeing intramural sports.
I did a lot of that for money.
They'd pay me like 75 cents a game or something.
I don't remember.
It wasn't very much, but that.
And then I later got that job with Mr. Sorensen.
uh you know i could i could find things to do and i scraped and got by and then i got a contract my junior year and i got 90 cents a day for being in the rotc and that came in pretty handy but then i'll jump ahead i met my wife and at the end of my freshman year the spring of my freshman year and i hitchhiked up to see her many times over the years and
but anyway we ended up getting married in August before my senior year and she was working in a bank in Hamilton Texas Evelyn is her name but she graduated one year behind me from high school but through a friend of mine who was an Aggie and a friend of my brother we were up in Hamilton and they introduced me to her and we started going together I'd hitchhike up there on the weekends when I could to visit her had her down here for a few occasions but
We decided we were going to get married in August.
And I was kind of hesitant about that.
I thought, you know, I get married, I'm going to, that's going to change my status down here a whole lot.
You know, what am I going to do in the Corps my senior year?
You know, I'd be in a day student unit, you know, as a married guy and all that.
But it really wasn't that uncommon for people to get married in those days.
Then they fall in love, they got married.
Today, you know, they don't usually.
But anyway, we got married, and she came down to A&M early in the fall to look for a job, and it was slim picking.
Everything was full.
But she ended up getting a job in the payroll division right down here.
It's what's the old system building.
What do we call it now?
The Williams Building, I guess.
But in the basement, she worked in finance and payroll.
For my senior year, and that pretty much helped finance me,
that last year.
And you all lived where then?
Well, we took a one-bedroom efficiency apartment down in Bryan, somewhere down on around 29th, 28th Street, right in the heart of old Bryan there.
I've looked for it many times, and I can't find it now, so I think it's been demolished.
And then in the spring, we found a little duplex up here on...
South College or North College, whichever you call it, but, you know, just up the road here from the old circle.
And we lived in that duplex there for the spring semester.
But I graduated and went immediately off to the Air Force and spent the next 33 years doing other things.
But at A&M, playing basketball, you know, that was really a dream of mine.
Who was the freshman coach?
Well we had a freshman coach his name was Larry Hayes he was really the assistant coach but he coached the freshman primarily but we worked with the varsity all the time you know we worked out and trained together.
Who were the stars of the varsity that first year?
Okay well a fellow by the name of Jewel McDowell one of the greatest basketball players I ever saw he was tremendous
I remember when we came down in the spring semester of my last high school year to visit with Marty Corot.
Marty Corot was telling us, he said, you know, I've got this one guy.
When the other team has a guy that's scoring too many points, I just put him on him to cover him and it shuts him down.
This guy, Jewel McDowell, his little guard, shot a two-handed set shot.
And he is as tough as nails, kid from Amarillo.
But he was one of the stars.
I'll jump ahead a little bit.
That first year I was here, 50-51, A&M won, tied for the Southwest Conference Championship.
The first time that we had won, I believe it's an NCAA championship.
I don't know when they won some other championships in other sports, but there is a
I've read it.
I think it was, well, anyway, they hadn't won a basketball thing in a long time, but they did tie for it, and they beat Texas in the playoffs.
And I was, you know, we scrimmaged and all that, and we played our own schedule too.
We'd play a fish game before the varsity game each time.
But the stars on the varsity were Jewel McDowell, a little guard, and Walter Buddy Davis.
Buddy Davis, a guy that I knew, I knew all these folks very well.
They're good friends.
We had a reunion this past spring, and a lot of those guys were back.
First time I'd seen some of them.
Davis was a great high jumper, wasn't he?
Davis was a great high jumper.
I recall the situation.
We'll have to get into our coach first.
A guy by the name of John Floyd from Oklahoma State came here in the fall of 50 to be the basketball, the head basketball coach.
He'd been grilled in the Hank Iba School of conservative, slow-down basketball, and he was very rigid and...
very conservative and everything but much the Oklahoma State style games would be 30 to 29 and stuff like that but he was a hard-nosed coach that just ran us into the ground and I don't know of anyone on the team that felt very glad to
to be on the team like it was they just weren't very happy and you know maybe they didn't understand I don't know but maybe we didn't but anyway the other players that on the varsity they're doing were quite good well known Buddy Davis Buddy about his high jumping we had spring basketball practice in those days after
The basketball season was over about the end of February, 1st of March.
Then just a little bit later, we'd have like a month or six weeks of spring basketball practice.
And we'd go out there and just like spring football practice.
And it was nothing but running and hard work and not much fun.
And as I recall, Buddy Davis went out for track to escape spring basketball practice.
And lo and behold, he became an outstanding high jumper.
Where did you all practice?
DeWare Fieldhouse.
Now, was G. Raleigh built yet?
Oh, no.
It was being built while I was here.
Describe games in DeWare.
What was DeWare like as a place to play?
Well, I thought it was a pretty nice place at the time, and we had big crowds.
I think the thing seated about 5,000 or 6,000, but they would pretty much fill up the place for the basketball games.
uh we'd play uh you know a major game and we were having a good season too i don't know what it'd been before but i can tell you in the fall of 50 and spring of 51 that year we had excellent crowds and i've seen them lined up out there to get in to deware field house and you know it was so much bigger than what i saw in high school it seemed like a great place to me at the time teams traveled by bus then i presume teams i did travel with a team
Those two years.
I made most of the trips.
We traveled by bus, sometimes by train.
When we'd go to play T.C.
or SMU, we'd ride the train.
We'd get on the train at the train station over there.
And that was nice, riding the train.
We'd go to Houston.
We'd bus.
We'd stay at the old Shamrock Hotel.
I couldn't believe I was staying in the Shamrock Hotel.
We didn't spend the night.
We'd have a room to go rest in the afternoon.
I remember the meals were quite nice, the after-game meals and all of that.
But we traveled by bus for most of the trip.
Now, they did make one trip to New York my sophomore year.
They played LaSalle and they played one of the teams in New York City there.
I forget which it was, but they played in Madison Square Garden.
And I was really looking forward to that.
But the coach said, well, we can't take everybody on this trip.
So they cut the squad down to nine or ten, I believe it was.
I didn't get to make that trip.
So that was one of my big disappointments.
But I was always kind of a freshman.
I played on the starting team there.
But on the varsity in my sophomore year, I was kind of one of those bench guys down there.
And, you know, my stock went up and down a little bit.
I never did get to play all that much.
However, I played in most of the games as a sophomore, but I remember playing in Gregory Gym.
Of the places where you all played, what was your favorite and your least favorite places on the road?
Well, I didn't like to play in Gregory Gym.
It was such a hostile crowd.
I just felt intimidated there.
But, you know, again, I'd been to the...
watch the state meet in basketball always at Gregory Gym and you know it's one of those places you hear and read about and so it seemed nice to be there but I just didn't like to play there I didn't like the attitude the crowd and with that year we ended up in a playoff with Texas for the Southwest Conference Championship and we beat them two out of three which was really great for A&M great thing.
What was your favorite place on the road?
On the road
Well, I remember playing in Will Rogers Coliseum.
I thought that's pretty neat.
I liked that.
I'd been to rodeos there in high school and thought that's one of these great Taj Mahals of the world.
And so I thought it was pretty spectacular to be able to play in Will Rogers.
I would say that SMU, when they got their new Moody Coliseum, we played early when that was new.
Mm-hmm.
and I think that's about as nice a place as I played in back in those days.
Rice had their archery court it was new then but it always seemed strange to me that they got a stage down there on one end and all of that but it was it was nice but one thing I remember happened up at TCU when I was a sophomore again I was a sub and TCU was giving us fits up there I guess they were ahead of us but
seemed like it was before the half or something there the coach jumps up and yells down the bench and calls my name and said get in there and they had one of these portable floors and it stuck up about the bench and the seats were over here on the side but this portable floor was raised about six eight inches there and in my haste to jump in to the game I stumped my toe and went sprawling across the floor
Really one of the most embarrassing before this pretty good-sized crowd there at Will Rogers Coliseum.
And they had a good laugh.
They had a good laugh.
And you got, for those two years of basketball, you didn't get any financial... I got laundry money my sophomore year.
After the freshman year, it started registering with me.
I'm not going to be any star basketball player.
I'm probably just going to be...
cannon fodder kind of guy out here mostly and play a little bit you know it was fun to be on the squad and have the feeling that you're playing and all this but that wears off after a while and I realized that you know there are more serious things that I ought to be concerned about and I ought to give it up but into my freshman year I thought about giving it up then and just go over and become a regular corps member but I wrote to coach a letter and said you know I'm thinking about quitting but
You know, I was thinking, maybe I'd be a manager.
Maybe I'd help.
If you got a slot or a manager, you know, maybe I could do that.
Well, he wrote me back, and he said, well, I'll tell you what.
You come on back on the team, and I'll give you $15 a month for laundry money.
So my sophomore year, I got $15 a month.
Which, in those days, had some money.
You know, I took it.
All right, let's go back to that first fall.
Did you make any court trips that first year?
Yes.
I remember the Texas court trip very well.
Describe that.
How'd you get there and what'd you all do?
Well, my friend Jim Ashlock again, he and I went together, as I recall.
How we got there, I don't remember.
You know, we didn't either want to have an automobile, but there were some people had them, or maybe we hitchhiked.
I don't know, but that was a common thing in those days.
I remember going to Austin, and they talked about this core trip and all of this, and I thought, well, this sounds, you know, they built it up very big, and we get over there, and there's lots of parties going on, and I was not into alcohol.
I never, not taking alcohol, and I still don't.
But I was a little turned off that I saw so much alcohol and carousing around and people drunk.
I didn't have a very good taste in my mouth on that.
What were they, primarily in those years, what were they drinking?
Beer, whiskey, what?
I think it was all of it.
I don't, I can't, I guess beer maybe more.
But anyway, I remember, you know, we,
We kind of stayed away from that to the extent we could.
Did you spend the night over in Austin?
We stayed the night over there, and I don't even remember.
Some hotel, I guess it was.
I don't even remember.
How did you feel marching down Congress Avenue?
Well, you know, that I liked.
I liked that.
And you know, being over in Austin for this game, I felt, you know, I had mixed feelings.
Some of it I really liked.
But again, the partying and the alcohol and some of that stuff, I... Was that the first time you had worn the Corps uniform in a truly public setting?
No, I don't think so.
Seemed like we had an earlier game.
Seemed like we went to... Dallas or... Dallas or one or the other.
Dallas, I believe it was.
I'm pretty sure it was Dallas.
But I don't, you know, I just remember the marching part and that's about all I remember from that.
But the Austin court trip was one where everybody goes over the night before.
Did you go home for Thanksgiving or did you come back?
We had to come back for basketball practice.
Christmas too.
Did you go home at all in the fall that first year?
I can't remember going home at all.
How did you, in the early months, how did you and your family communicate?
Letters.
About how often?
I wrote pretty frequently.
I'd write once or twice a week.
And did mom and dad send anything to you other than letters?
Oh yeah.
They sent me care packages.
Did you all call it that then?
uh i don't know that we did we may i i can't recall it us but i remember her making cookies and things and sending them and you know that was always a highlight but mail was the way we the written letter my folks did not have a telephone and i don't remember making a single telephone call while i was at a m and if someone had tried to call you in hart hall
How many phones were there in the whole dormitory?
I don't remember any.
Now, so people made long-distance phone calls normally from the MSC, didn't they?
MSC, I believe you're right.
I believe you're right.
There might have been something at the Y, but I believe the MSC, they had maybe a bank of phones or something there.
But, you know, when I moved over to the Quad, I don't remember any telephones.
But my folks out in the country did not have a telephone, so I couldn't have called them if I wanted to.
All right, so you go home...